
Lyonnaise Potatoes

Crispy and creamy, they're a Lyonnaise classic.
By Alexandra Shytsman
Updated February 19, 2025
Alexandra Shytsman
Lyonnaise potatoes on a platter at a tablet setting with a small plate of crushed peppers, bowl of minced parsley, and a plate



Lyonnaise Potatoes
Prep Time 10 mins
Cook Time 35 mins
Total Time 45 mins
Servings 4 servings
Cook Mode (Keep screen awake)
Ingredients

    3 medium Yukon Gold potatoes (1 1/2 pounds), peeled and cut into 1/4-inch-thick rounds

    2 teaspoons salt, plus more for seasoning

    1/4 cup extra virgin olive oil, divided

    1 small yellow onion, sliced into thin half-moons

    Freshly ground black pepper, to taste

    1 tablespoon minced fresh parsley, optional

Method

    Boil the potatoes:
    Place the potatoes and salt in a medium pot. Add enough water to cover by about an inch and cover tightly with a lid. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to low and gently simmer the potatoes, uncovered, for about 4 minutes. They should be mostly cooked through but still hold their shape well and retain a bit of resistance when pricked with a fork.
    Drain the potatoes in a colander and set aside for a few minutes to dry out a bit.
    sliced yukon gold potatoes boiling in a pot of salted water for Lyonnaise potatoes recipe

    Simply Recipes / Alexandra Shytsman
    Meanwhile, cook the onions:

    While the potatoes are coming to a boil, heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a large cast iron skillet over medium heat. Add the onions and cook, stirring often, until they’re golden brown and slightly crispy, 12 to 14 minutes. Remove to a bowl and set aside.
    sauteed sliced onions in a cast iron skillet for Lyonnaise potatoes recipe

    Simply Recipes / Alexandra Shytsman
    Fry the potatoes:

    Add 2 more tablespoons of oil to the skillet, raise the heat to medium-high, and carefully arrange half of the potatoes inside in a single layer (careful, they may sputter). Sprinkle with salt and pepper and cook, undisturbed, until the bottoms are golden brown, about 5 minutes. Flip and cook the other side under golden brown, about 5 more minutes.

    Remove the cooked potatoes to a serving platter. Top with half of the cooked onions and half of the parsley, tent loosely with foil, and set aside.
    boiled potatoes pan fried in a cast iron skillet for Lyonnaise potatoes recipe

    Simply Recipes / Alexandra Shytsman
    Cook the remaining potatoes and serve:

    Add the remaining tablespoon of oil to the skillet and cook the remaining potatoes the same way. Transfer to the platter and top with the remaining onions and parsley.

    These potatoes are best served hot, straight from the skillet. Leftovers can be stored in the fridge for up to 1 day and reheated on the stove or in the microwave.

    Love the recipe? Leave us stars and a comment below!
    Lyonniase potatoes in a cast iron skillet with a spoon and next to a bowl of minced parsley

    Simply Recipes / Alexandra Shytsman

    Yukon Gold Potatoes
    Most Recent
    Side Dishes
    Potatoes
    French

